Enable pure `pip`/`uv` installations (#683)
neuroinformatics-unit/movement: docs/source/user_guide/installation.md

(target-installation)=
# Installation

## Use a virtual environment

> While not strictly required, it is highly recommended to install `movement` into a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not strictly required, we strongly recommended installing `movement` in a
```

clean virtual environment, using tools such as [conda](conda:) or [uv](uv:).

This should be set up before installing `movement`.

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} conda

> Create and activate a new environment:

Reviewer: We ask users to make sure they have uv installed and provide the link to the installation, but we don't for conda. Wdyt about replacing the urls in 
https://github.com/neuroinformatics-unit/movement/blob/98f429e2badaf871741a562a6a1e1fc150c2f6ab/docs/source/user_guide/installation.md?plain=1#L7
to point directly to the respective installation pages?

In the tab-items we can then simplify both conda and uv instructions to:
Create and activate a new virtual environment

```sh
conda create -y -n movement-env -c conda-forge python=3.13
conda activate movement-env
```

We used `movement-env` as the environment name, but you can choose any name you prefer.
:::

:::{tab-item} uv
Make sure [uv is installed on your system](uv:getting-started/installation).
Then create a [virtual environment](uv:pip/environments/) in your project directory:

```sh

> uv init

Reviewer: why do we need this`?
```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks for flagging this. I initially thought that this would be required for projects without an existing `pyproject.toml` file (e.g. many research data analysis projects), but turns out that's not the case. 

`uv venv` and `uv pip install` will work without uv initialisation.

Author: In short, `uv init` would be needed only if you are setting a new project from scratch, but I don't think we need to spell it out here, uv users will deduce as much from the uv docs. I think I will just scrap `uv init` from our instructions.

> uv venv --python=3.13

Author: I agree with  skipping `uv init` (see response to earlier comment), but I don't think I'm in favour of assigning a custom env name here.

Since `uv`'s logic is that the env belongs to the project (i.e. each project has it's own enviroment), I haven't seen many people assigning custom paths/names to uv environments.

I'm also thinking of many use-cases, where `movement` will need to be installed alongside other packages inside the venv of a typical research data analysis project. I know this technically goes against our recommendation to always install `movement` in a fresh env, but in practice that's how I expect many people to use it, and in many cases `movement` will play along fine.

window with the `movement` widget docked on the right-hand side.

## Update the package

Always update using the same package manager you used for installation.

> If you are not sure which one you used, you can run `conda list movement` from your active `conda` environment

Reviewer: This is not applicable to uv users

and check whether the output shows `conda-forge` or `pypi` as the channel.

To update `movement`, run the appropriate command below:

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} conda
```sh
conda update -c conda-forge movement -y
```
:::

:::{tab-item} pip
```sh
pip install -U movement
```
:::

:::{tab-item} uv
```sh
uv pip install -U movement
```
:::
::::

If the above fails, try installing `movement` in a fresh new environment to avoid dependency conflicts.

First remove the existing environment:

::::{tab-set}
:::{tab-item} conda
```sh
conda env remove -n movement-env
```

This command assumes your environment is named `movement-env`.
If you are unsure about the name, you can get a list of the environments
on your system with `conda env list`.
:::

:::{tab-item} uv

> Simply delete the `.venv` folder in your project directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete the `.venv` folder in your project directory.
```
if you decide to name the env as movement-env, update accordingly

```bash
rm -rf .venv       # On macOS and Linux
```
```powershell
rmdir /s /q .venv  # On Windows PowerShell

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```powershell
rm -rf .venv       # On macOS and Linux
rmdir /s /q .venv  # On Windows PowerShell
```
````
